all right folks welcome back
a little bit of a different type of
presentation style tonight i'm gonna be
blending both of my communities okay i
have a private mentorship group which i
usually do a midweek review and
commentary and teaching
with on wednesday monday and friday
and then obviously you know youtube
mentorship group you all get a video
from me on tuesday night
and on thursday night
well this is part of the video when i
talk to my private group i do a little
bit of jaw boning so
bear with me because i'm trying to save
myself a lot of time
i went on holiday last week
and we went down to florida did some gum
shoe
detective work found some interesting
things
and i'll bring that up in the coming
weeks it'll be a little interesting
but in the meantime
i came back obviously late we had a lot
of traffic and it delayed me i couldn't
get back home
to do the video for the youtube
community
and i got home late today and i had a
lot of admin
tasks to do because of mentorship and
businesses that i'm running so
with that said
just know that this is not going to be a
regular thing i'm doing it because i
have a lot of work to do when i'm
producing these videos
for my private group so i am blending
both okay so i'm gonna cover
what i promised i was gonna cover in the
youtube commentary
on tuesday night but was unable to do so
and then
also i'm gonna
give the private mentorship group
their commentary and
blend both communities together okay so
it'll kind of give you a little bit of a
an appreciation for just how much i
really am teaching here
on youtube
okay and
just so you know i know there's a lot of
you that are commenting in the videos
and you're asking how to join the
private mentorship group and what is the
distinction between that
and the youtube community
well the private mentorship group
they get to see things before it happens
okay and as i call moves before it
happens i call
analysis i break that down before it
happens and i'll give you a little taste
of that what was given to them on monday
night
and i'll use that to segue into the
teaching that i promised i would give
you youtube community on tuesday night
but was unable to
and kind of give you also a
a preview kind of like what i'm going to
be doing when i start doing live streams
what do you say i see he's going to be
doing live streams
he said
he said he was going to do live streams
didn't they say he would never do that
yep it's 2022 i'm doing everything they
said i wouldn't do okay
so anyway the point is i'm going to give
you a little bit of a taste of what i'm
going to be outlining in real time with
intraday charts okay which is a lot
easier because it's
it's quicker number one
and it won't feel quicker when you're
watching it with me okay it's going to
be probably me
droning on about things while the price
action is moving okay so i'm going to
drive most of you that
don't like all of my lectures where i
have a lot of
insight being shared and things that you
don't think are relevant to you because
you want to get to give me an entry
pattern give me a targeting technique
and that's it that's all i need
that's not all you need okay because if
it was that easy
everybody would be rich but
i understand everybody has to go through
that growth period
but
when i get to that part i'll tell you
this is the part
where i'm gonna show you
basically what i'm going to be doing in
the live streams okay so
with that
i just want to make this point here
because
my private group
you know who you are
i have been telling you
for over a year now to download all of
your videos okay because the server will
not be hosted any longer starting june
1st 2022
as i mentioned we're going to be moving
away from videos
and we're going to forum posts only so
everything i say usually in audio
commentary over a video
i'll be just simply typing out on a
chart because you are now charter
members so i don't need to do so much
leg work with the audio okay or
commentary i can point to certain things
and you'll know exactly what i'm
referring to what it means and what it's
useful for
and then obviously i'll point to where
it's going to go before it's going to go
so there you go
makes things a lot easier quicker for me
everyone else as well and
it doesn't cost me a
fortune to run this community it's
rather large
and since you all don't pay anymore i'm
not running a mentorship anymore where
you pay me okay no one can join this
so that's the distinction they get to
see analysis before the fact and
incorporate the things that they learned
whereas on youtube i'm giving you one
specific model a bread and butter
approach where you can literally go in
there isn't a lot of moving parts
i stripped it down to its chrome okay
no
fluff
in it okay straight right to the brass
tacks
now the same thing i've done with this
youtube model
my mentorship
that is charter member
they can do the same thing with what was
taught to them
they can strip it down or they can make
it as intricate and complex as they want
that's the private mentorship group it
goes into a lot of detail that is
honestly
overwhelming for the majority of them
and as i mentioned when i promoted it
it's only for the freaks that want to
just know everything okay not that it's
going to be useful for everyone but
in contrast to what they get and what
i'm giving you on youtube
i've literally
laid a working
model
with
very easy rules
that don't really go beyond what i'm
going to show
so far
that in my opinion
can make you a consistently
successful analyst let's say it that way
okay because i can't promise
profitability no one can
the only thing i promise and this is
what i promised in my product mentorship
too it's
i promise that you're going to learn how
to read the markets better than anybody
else would be able to show you
and i can prove that these things work i
do it every single week every single
week i outline these things and if it
doesn't work it won't hold up
so right away you can read the comments
in the youtube
mentorship and you can see people are
really excited because they're seeing
the results of simply going in and
looking for the things i've outlined
i'm not giving you a lot of different
things to look for i'm giving a very
specific thing during a specific time of
day
and if you focus there over a period of
time you'll start to see things that
repeat over and over and over again now
they're going to have subtle
differences but they generally have the
same framework
and what do i mean by that
well they'll have certain signatures in
price where it creates the fair value
gap
and then it breaks a low comes back up
and fills in the gap maybe it partially
fills it maybe it goes halfway
maybe it completely closes it in
we don't need that
we don't need to be precise that's what
i'm trying to show you here that you
don't need to be
pinpoint precision accurate you can be
very
well
average in your entry
and as long as you're using sound money
management you can obviously fare it out
you know setups that will yield
consistency okay
so
with all that said
now you know the real story
i'm not getting shut down okay i'm not
going to stop teaching in fact i'm
probably going to now
uh do more youtube how's that sound okay
just to get under the skin of those that
just don't like it
all right so the dollar index is our
daily chart
and i mentioned obviously this is you
know
for the folks that were with me on
monday so you're going to have to just
take that in stride if you weren't part
of that group but nonetheless
the idea is that we were looking for a
bullish dollar we've been bullish on
dollar for a while now and i was
mentioning that we would go for the full
100 level we hit that i mentioned we
would go to 101.
and i mentioned how we could probably
draw back down in after hitting 101.
that's one of our targets and the second
one was going to be
101.947 and just for clarity's sake
the other one was just
short of 103 but i just rounded it to
the 103.
i'm not calling a top here in dollar you
know i don't do that i'm staying with
the
online narrative that
dollar should keep being pressed higher
this is just a
in my mind right now until proven
otherwise uh just a retracement after
hitting another
uh premium level
now what changes my mind on about the
dollar being bullish if we go below
these lows in here
that to me signals a potential turn or
enemy term high forming in the
marketplace and it would take a little
bit of time even after that for me to
change my long-term bullish stance one
dollar
so what am i saying in short
i'm
allowing for sloppy price action as i
mentioned on monday night's commentary
for the private group i know this is
going to be confusing for me oh you're
confusing me just deal with it folks
okay it's free okay
so
i mentioned on monday night that we
could probably see some sloppy price
action and i'm not in a hurry
to make decisions about actually going
in and taking live trades again yet
because we just came off passover
there's a lot of
holiday volume and a lot of money stays
on the sidelines during that weekend
it may not seem
practical to some of you but it's true
so we have to work out that little bit
of
lull in the volume and
i give that a few days and in fact it
might even be the rest of this week and
then maybe next week things will be a
little bit cleaner in terms of the price
action so higher prices on dollar that's
what i'm looking for until proven wrong
and we've obviously seen two targets
here hit the 100 level and the 101
rather handsomely so i have that level
highlighted here we'll drop down into
the hourly chart now
okay you see how we moved up in at the
101 level
look what they left here
see that see how clean that is
price does not like to leave those types
of formations in in its week so in other
words
even though we had a market drop
even though we took out a swing low even
though we had a fair value got even
though it came up here and filled it in
look at the body's respecting that it's
beautiful
that's beautiful price action
yes there's a little bit of movement
above it with the wicks here okay
but the bodies look how it's telling the
story there that is algorithmic price
action okay that is delivered by an
algorithm that is not buying and selling
pressure
okay that's not supply and demand it's
not harmonic it's
none of that stuff
it is
the algorithm
delivering price
on its terms and we as speculators
have the
fortunate
opportunity to be participants in these
opportunities
when they are presented
but they're not going to be profitable
because of things we learned in books
indicators didn't drive markets higher
or lower
any retail logic did not drive markets
higher or lower these markets are going
to book
print and deliver
on the basis of its algorithm
now either you understand that and get
in line with that or get run over
if you're winning
in any school of thought and i don't
care what it is i've done all of that
stuff okay
the only time
that i can look back and see when my
trades were profitable is when i was in
line with what the algorithm would do
anyway
now some of you watching and you may be
watching this as a new viewer for some
of you this may be the first viewing
opportunity you had with me
it's going to sound like this guy's
talking conspiracy well it's not
conspiracy it's obviously you know we're
running electronic markets now and ai is
driving it and there's really nothing
you can do
to change it so the only thing i can
suggest you is just investigate the
things i suggest
are happening in the marketplace
and i promise you if you spend no i
don't know a good month
you'll either see it if you don't move
along there's a lot of other people that
are very friendly on youtube i'm not
saying that they're good
i'm not trying to represent anybody
saying as a good teacher
but
there's other people out there are
willing to give you their time and you
go chase them but
with the dollar index
showing even the signatures that i have
been showing you
in the youtube community
doesn't this low being broken here in
that very gap
hits it right there we have another
higher variable you got so what does
that mean it could trade up into that
but we're looking for the entry in here
and then look at that now is this a
one-minute chart no
how about a two-minute chart
five no of course not five fifteen
minute no it's an hourly chart
and that same fractal nature of that
pattern i'm teaching you in the youtube
community
it exists here
now
if we look at the high
and the low that whole price swing here
from that low up to this high here
that parent price swing if you put a fib
on that and find out 50 percent of that
it's going to put you about in this area
you're saying i'm eyeballing it but
ultimately right below that low isn't it
interesting that's exactly what i was
teaching you in the youtube
model
but i'm teaching you
to use it on
any market
don't be on this team mentality because
i already see it brewing in the comments
section
a lot of futures traders are like yeah
ict you know i love the nasdaq trades
and the e-mini s p i love it we're
future traders we you know we love what
you're doing like i just discovered
future trading
i did that stuff back in the 90s 1992 i
cut my teeth on all that stuff
this is applicable to forex it's
applicable to bonds it's applicable to
futures
okay i have students that'll swear by it
working in crypto for the folks that are
asking about crypto i am not a crypto
trader if i traded crypto i would blow
my accounts out okay there you go i'm
not good at trading crypto if i was
believe me you'd hear about it but i'm
not okay so i bloomed where i was
planted okay so i'm good in forex i'm
good at futures that's it okay i don't
need to be anything else i don't need to
be a jack of all trades and meet
everyone's expectations if that doesn't
you know tickle your fancy i apologize
but again back to the website earlier
you're welcome to go see someone else if
that's not what you're looking for
but it goes to about 50 of that parent
price like here from here to here that's
algorithmic so we have a break in
structure here fair value gap here the
volume of the move
is inside the bodies of the candle see
that
we always allow for some inherent price
action
with the wicks and the tails of the
candles but we're looking for the
underlying
narrative
it's likely to go back in here and fill
this one single candle that created that
imbalance
this candle's low this candle is high
that small little imbalance right in
here it goes up and fills in that spends
some time there
then
breaks aggressively attacking all the
stops below here here here fills in the
gap and then goes right below that low
why
because equilibrium exists between this
low
and this high
why did it drop like this because it hit
our second target of 101 and plus it's
100 points or pips
above the full 100 level where is wait
where's that good grief here it is okay
so we really stretched above it and then
we had this now to me
this looks a little bit like
them trying to produce
this sentiment idea that the dollar has
topped
i'm not convinced of that yet okay
it could and i could be absolutely wrong
and these highs are may be the you know
the ones that top the dollar that always
exists that's where i can be wrong
i don't mind being wrong
by not trying to pick tops and bottoms i
don't mind that okay it doesn't make me
feel inferior does it make me feel like
i don't know what i'm doing it keeps me
on the right side of institutional order
flow institutional order flow is rooted
on higher time frame
bias
okay and that being for the dollar it's
bullish well it's bullish in my opinion
let's say it that way
so
while i don't subscribe to the idea that
we have topped here i like the idea that
we came back down into this run
and it looks like for everyone else that
may be looking for
resistance ideas
and a break in
you know the market structure
and a break and re-test idea i don't
think it's that simple i know some of
you will argue and snickers oh it is
that simple that's fine that's for your
model but i'm talking about calling tops
and bottoms in the marketplace that's
what i'm specifically honing in on
i think that we're going to revisit that
101 level and we have unfinished
business above it that means it's likely
go a little bit higher than that that's
what i'm subscribing to right now i'm
not convinced at all that we've changed
gears
now why am i beating this up
because some of you
didn't listen to me when i said that
some of you didn't listen to me when i
said it the second time
because you have selective hearing
you're waiting for the word order block
or fair value gap or break in market
structure
because you came into this video
with
preconceived notions or expectations
that i'm going to somehow
qualify your analysis that you think is
going to happen in forex so therefore
when i say these buzzwords your ears are
going to perk up and you'll be real
attentive then
and then what will happen is
you're going to do something in the
marketplace based on that and not even
listen to anything else in this video
because i'm talking too much that's
going to be the excuse but you're not
listening
okay you have to listen and understand
what i'm teaching you that's the lecture
here do not try to pick tops and bottoms
you don't need that there's a lot of
opportunity between
intermediate term highs and lows i don't
mind missing the long-term high in a
long-term low i don't need that i can be
wrong in trades trying to be bullish on
dollar i don't trade the dollar but if
i'm bullish on dollar that means
essentially i'm what
bearish euro bearish british pound
versus us dollar
all foreign currencies i'm bearish on
and bullish one dollar that's
essentially what i'm saying here so
i don't want any of you taking what i'm
saying here in one sentence or one
little notation that i make reference to
in a specific chart
and make a
sentiment idea
okay or a justification for your trade
so just be mindful that okay
all right so 15 minute time frame we
finally made
it south side liquidy resting below
these
lows in here swing low and we had cell
side resting below here as well so as i
mentioned too clean up here they're
really building the idea that this is
resistance
i don't think that's
the case and we might want to go a
little bit deeper
if it retrades back let's go back up to
this here we could trade back to the 100
level maybe
sneak below just a little bit to make
everybody think this is really done
if i was making the market for a dollar
i would take it down below 100.
dip it into
99.95 or 92
in that area here and then start to work
it higher that's that's how i would do
it because it would convince everybody
out there that the dollar is probably
topped and
then i would take it the other direction
you know what i'm talking about it
happens most of the time in your trades
you get in and you take something all
sudden no it's not as bullish as i
thought it was and it went lower
i've been there focused on i'm not
making fun of you
all right so here is that hourly fair
value gap but now look at it with the
lens of the 15 minute time frame
so we have this area here
but then we have this
imbalance
right there
so it comes up a little bit deeper
closes that in what do these two up
close candles represent
a bearish order block
so we can use the low
of the lowest
up close candle
and its opening price
you draw that out in time
hammered it
why is this an order block
well it's because it's
where
price was delivered on the upside even
though it's indecisive candles here that
up close
right before this
displacement to the downside
it's not listen to me folks it's not
what these folks are taking from my
videos and writing books on amazon
completely wrong
and there's a lot of things i'm going to
keep from even my private mentorship
group about order block theory until my
books are released okay and i've
purposely held that back why is he
holding back everything you know it's
because i have four books coming one's a
one's a fiction and three are technical
okay so
i'm gonna put things out there
because there's a lot of people out
there have
falsely
stated that they created this or i
copied it for something and you don't
know anything about order blocks okay
trust me you don't know anything about
it but
you know enough to find something that
repeats over and over again
in
the second book in my trilogy i'm
writing
when is it coming out you'll know more
about that as i come this is a whole
pandemic thing messed up the delivery
schedule i had for him but
the second volume in that trilogy i'm
gonna divulge a lot about order blocks
so that way
the world the community and trading will
know it's mine and you'll know more
about it there so anything that happens
after the fact i'm going to correct a
lot of people that think they need to
talk about blocks because actually
harming people that pay them or listen
to them
and it's not true
so really what they're saying is the
stuff that goes along with supply and
demand and i'm not supplying demand
but why are these candles here on order
block
it's because we had the change in the
state of delivery where it's already
dropping then it goes higher so the
algorithm is
putting a
it's kind of like a a bookmark
okay this is where
it will want to refer back to in the
future
okay think of it like that
so
let's say you're reading a book okay and
you're in this chapter and all of a
sudden real life kicks in you got to go
back to work or you
can't read anymore because your spouse
says you know you need to do some things
around the house
and it knows nudge so you have to stop
reading you put your little bookmark in
the page where you're at okay and then
you come back to it later on well
when you stop reading that's essentially
where this candle closes
and then all this happens while you're
away from the book
and then when you come back to the book
here you pick up with the storyline and
what was the story line it was dropping
it just had a little pause in here and
then we go right back to the storyline
so maybe that analogy doesn't fit you
but
it makes sense
a lot of ways to me okay it's like a a
reference point that the algorithm will
go back to because
the algorithm doesn't know where your
specific stop is at all times
your broker does
but the algorithm doesn't necessarily
know where your stop is or my stop is
at any given time
but it's based on the logic that is
really
promoted and regurgitated
all the time in books and seminars and
course teachers and things
put your stop rate above the high
put your stop right above the highs you
know it's always the same thing all the
time and it doesn't take
you know a rocket scientist to sit down
on the chart and say yeah well if it's
been dropping find a short-term high
most recently and that's where right
above that there's going to be buy stops
for anyone that's short they've trailed
their stop-loss down
so what does that mean it's like anyone
that went short up here and was
fortunate to be right
and it does this move here starts to
break down their stop would be moved
from here to right above this short term
high that trailing stop loss mentality
okay
i'm not a real big fan of rushing my
stop
and that's why i teach the way i teach
because i'm looking for things that make
sense and i'm not trying to strangle the
marketplace
but this order block
here is a change in the state of
delivery it's been going lower it's
likely to go lower
this
displacement qualifies
that order block because it creates a
fair value
and the narrative is likely to go lower
now this lower movement is short term in
nature it's
counter
long-term bias
okay
you can and will absolutely lose money
trading this style trading
because you're going against the higher
time frame order flow this type of
trading if you go in and you're trying
to be very nimble trying to go in and
think you can
you swing up and down buy sell buy sell
and you just recently started you're
going to absolutely blow your account
okay that is exactly what's going to
happen so don't do this so why am i
teaching this so that way you don't do
it understand that this is all part of a
natural retracement
and you can trust and study and back
test all the things that i've been
teaching you and they exist even in
these moves here but you may not and
don't be offended by this you may not
have the skill set
to see this type of retracement lower
and short it
that's okay you don't need to have that
skill set i have students that are
really good with trading
contrary in setups like this
that don't trust bias because they think
the moment they get in it's going to
turn on them so they like to take
contrary in trades where they trust it
more because it just makes sense for it
to be broken
if that makes any sense in other words
they
they know that this possibly makes heat
going higher because they hear me saying
it
but that doesn't change their
convictions about being a contrarian
and in some ways they're
going against what i'm saying is a
higher time frame overflow
bias
but they know how to pick these
opportunities where there is
confirmation is not likely to continue
at that very moment
so therefore they'll go in and go
against that bias and take trades now is
that wrong no because it matches their
personality and they know where those
opportunities exist
do i think that all new students should
go in with that expectation and that
mode of study absolutely not
no way absolutely no way
because
if that's what you really are internally
as a trader it'll materialize and
manifest itself over time
but the only way you're going to know
that is by learning the way i'm teaching
it because i'm teaching you how to trust
the higher time frame bias
okay i'm not teaching the trend as your
friend because
the things that they're
using to
you know promote those ideas i don't
subscribe to so since i don't subscribe
to those views
i don't look at it that way so i'm
looking at how the market moves from
discount to premium premium to discount
and also within market structure
so some of you at times will point and
say it looks like this or it looks like
that over here
it's only momentary
familiarity it looks familiar
but it's not there's a whole lot of
other things going on that just
sometimes look very similar to certain
things but there's a specific criteria
that takes place that i'm looking for
that i teach my students
and you've learned a very simple
approach to that that's existing right
here in this chart in the youtube model
alright so you're a dollar daily chart
all right so it's been a while since
i've talked to the youtube community i
think it's been like
two weeks or so and that something to
that effect um
but i drove your attention to
that low i said we were aiming for that
and
as luck would have it look it went down
there
so
that is an example of
bias that is an example of what i've
actually talked to my
community about for well weeks as it was
starting to come down we were up here
looking forward to come down to that low
i mentioned this low here i mentioned
these lows here and this low there
and you all on youtube
knew that we were looking for this run
on euro
the problem and this is why i'm not
trading forex at the moment okay no
forex is not broken no i don't think
they're ever going to change the
algorithm no i don't think that they're
going to change their algorithm or go
against the things i'm teaching because
the way i'm teaching is the market
itself
it's the internal engines that make
these price deliveries
appear on your chart
okay
that's why i'm teaching it
and with with no real reservations
because i know
me teaching this
isn't going to change anything
the level of trades that are being
pushed through these markets
is not going to be changed
by you watching these videos because
honestly
i've taught for years
and there's a lot of people that just
simply cannot follow instructions they
can't follow rules and they want to
fault somebody else they're going to
fault this one over here they want to
fault me they want to fault the concepts
when there's people already out there
proving just from the free stuff
that they're passing
competitions and challenges and you know
making money in their own accounts
you're doing very well in demo they all
have a wide range of experiences already
and i've only started the last week or
so in january
so
this business is very personal
and it's going to reveal a lot of things
about you and you're going to see things
that you didn't recognize before and
sometimes it's gonna be ugly
you're not as
good as you thought you were
you're not as astute as you thought you
were you're not as responsible
as you thought you were
believe me i learned those lessons in
the 90s and it was
not fun
and you resist it and the folks that
resist it will never get it
and they'll never learn how to trade
properly from anyone else because they
have a deep-rooted issue within
themselves so it won't make a difference
if somebody else steps in and says hey i
got something that's going to do it for
you ict complicates things i'm going to
give you this thing here you push a
button and it gets you in
no the same underlying issues that are
plaguing the individual will manifest in
any trading approach because they lack
responsibility number one
they lack the
adherence to rules
and they have not put enough time
if you're not getting instant
gratification
you're done
that's what the main critical thing
about me is
because i'm lecturing i'm teaching you
what you're going to encounter you may
not feel this is applicable to you but i
guarantee you stay long enough in this
you're going to be met with this and if
i don't tell you
how to deal with it or overcome it or
think about how you should be
overcoming it when you get to that
bridge okay because you're all going to
get to it eventually
different times different people
everyone grows differently
but you're going to have these
crossroads where you come to where you
feel like you know i don't think i
should be doing this anymore i think i
should be doing that or the grass looks
greener on that over here or this person
made money over here and i haven't made
money this week so maybe my stuff's
broken let me go and look at this that's
nonsense
there's people out there that don't
trade like me
and they make millions
because they are good money managers
period that's it
they
have something that gives them a
decision-making process they call it
their system okay or their edge
but really they're just good money
managers
period
they have something that instigates the
idea of a transaction in the marketplace
they have a faith based
system in believing that as long as it
doesn't do this go down to a level where
they would put a stop
they'll stay with that idea
and then when it gets to another level
they get out that's trading okay but the
idea is
i don't think
that
profitable systems outside of what i'm
teaching
are linked to their actual system
it's linked to their adherence to their
rules
sound money management
and not over trading and not over
leveraging
because literally i could flip a quarter
and you could too with sound mounting
management you could make a account be
profitable
now that sounds crazy okay
do it with a demo i said i'm suggesting
to you here
flip a quarter if it's heads you buy
flip a quarter if it's tails you sell
short do it every single day don't risk
more than a half percent aim for
one percent and do that
buy the open
sell the open that's it that's all you
do use a
use a 30 pip stop
and trade a forex pair and do it okay
and just test the idea
and see how hard it is to blow the
account
it takes a lot of effort to blow that
account but over time you can see that
it can show profitability
now
if you take that application and apply
it to okay what happens if you limit
your number of trades if you
remove
the frequency
at which you trade intro week that means
what days of the week you're actually
going to specifically trade on
and then within those days what specific
time of that day are you going to trade
on and then what asset classes are
you're going to trade
and inside that asset class what
specific market are you going to trade
and inside that specific market are you
going to be bullsh or you're going to be
bearish so you're refining everything
down to
an algorithm or a recipe because a
recipe is an algorithm okay you have
this list of ingredients and you put
these ingredients and find them in a
specific order and at the end you should
have an expected result being a cake or
a cookie or whatever it is that you know
your mother grandmother used to make for
you
bottom line is
i'm giving you recipes
now
it's up to you to decide on what you're
going to do with this information i show
it
as you see every single week
in my mentorship group
i talk about where the market's going to
go beforehand i'm not telling you to buy
or sell short anything
at any one particular level i'm pointing
to where the market's going to go
because i've already taught you entry
strategies but i'm not trying to force a
specific entry strategy on any one
student or all of you collectively
because there is no pressing all of you
into a mode
because
that will absolutely guarantee
failure
failure as an as a mentor and be failure
for a community of students
i'm cognizant that there is a wide
disparity between
my personality and everyone else's and
just as well as if we were on a room we
would all have different personalities
as well that's going to be an issue for
all of you so my teaching style
allows for you to find your own
style
in the tools and concepts that i teach
now i could trade with every single one
of them and my better students can do it
with a a good list of them
but i don't have one student out there
that can do everything
well
perfectly that doesn't i haven't had
that yet i'd like to believe before i
pass on i will but i don't have that yet
but i do have some extremely good
traders
some consistently good profitable
but i also have late you know failures
you know these folks just simply can't
get it
now
in the youtube community give it time
you're gonna you're gonna see people
commenting that they can't do it okay my
encouragement to all of you
is the same thing i'm going to tell
you that i tell my private group in
their form
do not gang up on them don't make fun of
them don't say oh well you know this
that i don't think
um
be encouraging today because really if
they're posting that they're hurting
they feel frustrated and they're
basically saying unless someone
intervenes right now i'm gonna quit
and i have done that
there's been nobody to tell me
keep going okay back in the 90s i just
had to persevere
i'm hoping by me showing these things
publicly talking about what's going to
happen
where it's going to go it
proves you that it's
possible to forecast these price moves
now what you do is you go back inside
all the moves here and decipher what it
is i'm
pointing to and why it was useful for
you to
find a setup in it and is does that set
up repeat enough for you to justify that
specific way or approach of trading what
do i mean by that
some of my students can't day trade they
just don't have the ability to do it
they have
businesses or
school or they have jobs
and they have to be
you know making ends meet they're
elsewhere they can't be in front of the
charts
so they have the position trade so that
means they're going to have to trade on
the daily chart or a four hour chart
and that's fine you can do that it just
takes a lot of time to move from these
levels here down to here
and then you got to wait a long time for
the next new setup i'm not a fan of that
but i'm not trying to discourage anybody
that has to operate under those
restraints but i mentioned on the
youtube community
in the mentorship videos for this
channel i mentioned that we were going
to be aiming for that low we got that
it's sloppy on its delivery but it got
down there
back to why i'm not touching forex it's
because of this type of movement here
everything is really muddy right now the
reason why currencies are not moving
well is because trade is being hindered
there is a supply chain congestion
all these factors are causing currencies
not to move if you look around everybody
that is been in this business for a long
time that's
consistently
trading profitable they're noteworthy
they're kind of like the the pillars of
the trading community
none of them are really talking about
currencies right now because it's a
quiet asset class
it's a sleep right now
i don't think it's going to stay this
way forever okay and when it springs
back to life
everybody's going to want to go back
into currencies okay
but right now it's a really slow market
and it's really hard
for a trader to learn
in this environment
because
you want to see excitement you want to
see animation in the price action and i
get it that's what we want as traders so
what i've done and i do this in my own
analysis studies and teachings and
trainings and
the way i teach my product group too
they'll test for it in the comments
section you tell me i'm a liar okay if
i'm not doing this every week with y'all
every month every year
i navigate the marketplace
so i'm taking their attention to where
the markets are going to be big movers
where's the excitement i do that
beforehand i'm not waiting for something
to happen oh let's go over here now it's
exciting no i'm always before the big
moves start coming
forex is not it right now okay
index futures has been
now we're also entering a period where
it could get a little
dry may typically can create some
scenario where it's bearish
i'm looking for evidence that's going to
continue but we'll get into that when we
talk about index futures but
euro dollar
delivered as we were expecting we got
the lower prices
and that same movement and idea of
reaching for that low here
is basically what i'm doing with the
live streams
but just with intraday charts okay so in
other words what do i
what i what do i promise to do with all
of you you know the few times in may
that i'm going to do the live streams
i'm basically going to outline where i
think the draw on liquidity is now what
is that the draw liquidity was below
this low here all this movement here
each candle going lower
each day it went down even though it
made a low here on this candle and a low
on this candle and a low here even this
candle being up close and this candle
you not quite yet making that low but
then one day we smash down through it
and we dug in a little bit deeper one
more time not deeper than that low but
deeper below that low
on a daily basis you know we had one two
three four
five days below that old low and we came
back up in
i'm going to basically point to where i
think intraday price action is going to
go
now i don't want any of you
to take that as an invitation to go and
trade on that
that's the worst thing you can do
not because i suck not because i can't
trade not because i'm not good at
analysis because i don't want you to do
that yet
i'm forcing you
to study price action you have to learn
how to tape read and if you can't tape
read
you will not be consistent in your
trading period and a story that's the
way it is
because everything that you'll be doing
if you make money is really not
based on the market it's based on
circumstance and believe me i've had
periods of being profitable
with just dumb luck
it happened folks in the 90s i really
thought when i first started
that wow i read a book you know and i
watched a couple videos and wow this
stuff really works and what i was really
doing was just buying a perpetual bull
market and everything was going up i
could have threw a dart at the wall and
whatever it hit i was buying that and it
made money
everything was going up
so it tricked me into thinking i knew
what i was doing at the time
and i didn't
so
i want you to take the live streams i do
in may
and
sometimes it'll be forex majority time
is gonna be futures
don't be part of that team mentality
futures is the better thing forex is the
better thing it's just right now futures
you know i have a vested interest in
proving to the youtube community that
number one
i know those markets
better actually than forex i started in
futures in 1992.
the same things
that i always answer everyone okay let's
say if you're wrong ict okay i
understand i ask you all the time in the
comments section
what happens if you teach this to so
many people will the algorithm be
changed will they change the way it is
will they go after people that use this
blah blah blah
i don't believe that's the case but
let's go out on a limb and say ict is
wrong
okay say that the whole world goes to
one currency okay
and everything goes upside down and 4x
no longer is there what would i do well
if i was here i would go back to
trading futures
period
so i don't want you to think that
team futures is better than team 4x
because believe me when forex comes back
to life
it's going to smoke index futures and
it's going to be all kinds of excitement
back in currencies okay
it that's the way it is folks it moves
in and out of
you know asset classes are really really
hot and then they go cold and something
else gets really exciting it's this
navigation through the asset classes
that experience and those with
experience doing it
know how to do 30 years you know i've
been doing this stuff 30
years
and those 30 years the greatest lessons
i learned was what i'm suggesting and
talking about right now to some of you
young guys okay
it's just too much talking but these are
the things that you need to understand
because they're going to be the
impediments to you succeeding because
you think
every day there's going to be a big move
in the euro because you see something
just because you think you see something
doesn't mean that that market's going to
do anything
look how
consolidated it was for this day here
here here and here then finally it just
whips down below that low
that could be very frustrating for
someone that has been
expecting this thing to go down
and
for instance look at the folks that
would have been trying to break out go
short below that low here it does so
here and it comes ripping right back up
in the same day
and
that might have changed their opinion
about the market
going lower
but i teach that that liquidity below
that low is where it's really going to
go so these up close candles really are
just opportunities to go short
and then drive it lower
okay so
i'll talk a little bit more about the
live streams when we get to the e-mini s
p part
all right so admittedly this video is a
lot more talking than i normally do is
because i'm conscious
that there are two communities here
so i'm having conversations with both of
you now to me it's normal i can do these
kind of things i can go back and forth
and start a conversation leave it and do
some other things and come back and fill
in the gaps i wanted to talk about but
i know this is the type of video that's
going to drive most of you that are
really really
critical
it's going to drive you nuts
but i promise you if you listen to me
there's some really good stuff in this
video
so just take what you you find useful
in which you don't find useful just
filter out
so here's the hourly chart on euro
market traded down aggressively here on
this day
swept below that low here's that daily
low
let me go back that way because i've
done a lot of talking probably didn't
make note of it that daily low is one
point zero eight zero six in one pipette
that's that line right here okay so an
hourly chart it breaks down
slams below it
and look at all this price action in
here
see all that
this is during
passover week
last week when i wasn't trading
and
we hit that same low here
we rally create a fair value gap there
run right back up to the old highs in
here
and optimal trade entry from the high
to the low we went right up into a
short-term premium
so as a
short-term trader going counter-trend
remember i was referring to on the
dollar index where
i have students that are contrarian
if i'm long-term bullish on dollar they
know where to go in and pick their shots
where it looks like
retail will see it as a reversal
and that's how they made their model
so i'm bullish on dollar
they'll wait for retail to think that
that
bullish dollar has topped and then
they'll go in and find their setups so
hopefully that made it more clear about
what i was saying earlier well what
would that look like with euro well it
would look like this we would have a
run back down in to old support which is
on daily low
rallies creates a fair value gap
buy it in here
right back above the bodies of these
candles into
the 62 retracement level because 62 and
79 tracement levels are what i teach is
optimal trade entry
range but it's not optimal trading entry
for the setup okay so in other words we
could be a buyer down here
and trade back up the 62 percentage
level or the bodies okay around around
above the bodies of these candles here
just pick the 62 tracing level and just
make it really easy for yourself
but that would be a nice little run in
here it's not a lot of pips i mean what
is it 20
60 50 it's 10
20. 30
ish 30 40 pips thereabouts
not bad bread butter type setup but that
would be the
version of a contrarian trade
against the bias that i'm suggesting to
my private group which has also been
shown to you in the youtube community
being
bearish on euro until we got below that
low here
now for the youtube community
you're all scratching like okay get to
the point where it's going to go where
is it going to go next okay this is what
i mentioned on monday to my private
group now i'm telling you now
just because we're doing this style of
teaching tonight because i don't have
the time to do
multiple copies of the same video in my
private group then make a youtube video
so what i'm choosing to do is make a
very very long irritating video that has
a lot of information in it for youtube
so
i don't have a bias at the very moment
for europe i don't have a clean level
it's going to go to and then reverse
okay
i've been specific recently and you both
communities have known that
but right now we're back in that
sideways consolidation congestion area
and we have to wait for displacement and
what does that mean wait for something
like this okay if we get it on the
upside okay great that's fine it'll give
us something to work with in terms of a
range if it breaks lower it's fine you
will give us something we can work with
in terms of a range as well what do i
mean by that well from this high that
low
we went below these lows in here and
then we created a short term break in
market structure
here so this low
broken came back down in fill the favor
you got spent some time in here a lot of
time okay this is typical with a holiday
and then starting into a new week it's
slow volume and then we get this little
bit of movement and we pop right back up
into this range high and low
fifty percent of it's like right here
above 50 we're going to be looking for a
premium
so 62 the 79 tracement level that would
be your objective
so
if we get a displacement
lower
i'm going to look for this type of move
here just repeated later on
vice versa if it goes higher i don't
care at this point
because it hit my objective my objective
was i wanted to see euro go below that
low okay this level here on the daily
chart since it's done that and i am
neutral near-term on dollar i'm still
long-term bullish
but right now i don't see a setup to go
in and say okay now there's something to
do
now for new traders or new students here
that doesn't sound
feasible you just said you've been doing
this for 30 years you can't find a trade
right now
not on a daily chart not on the four
hour chart and not on the hourly at the
very moment at the time of this
recording the way the charts are laid
out in front of me i have nothing to go
on at this very moment
that's also another reason why i'd like
to do this because
i can't really tick off the private
community because i'm not really giving
this
youtube channel
the prognostication i usually give them
but i'm teaching and lecturing and i'm
giving it kind of like a
a complaining contrast of what
they're getting versus what you all get
and neither one of you should be
fighting with one another or jealous of
another okay because you all had
opportunity to join and no one's allowed
to do it anymore
so
let's go on to your dollar 15 minute
time frame and you can see here again
really nice
fair value this is what i was referring
to on the hourly chart it's just really
clean here
on the 15 minute now when i say clean
what do i mean by that
we have a nice run up here
it returns back to that old daily low
and then we have what displacement
that real energetic run higher
that is algorithmic
when it creates this gap here
we don't care that it's still stretching
up here
now
as a new trader
or someone that is impatient that
doesn't have an understanding what
they're looking for
it will feel like an impossibility for
them to say
i'll wait till it gets back down here
and then buy
because what will happen is once it does
when it trades down like this they're
not going to look at that and say oh
yeah i feel good about that they're
going to think man this thing what
happens if it's going down below these
equal lows because that's what everybody
on youtube is now teaching because i
mentioned it
no
what's the narrative
we're short term
right now oversold on the daily
why because we took out that old daily
low
we went below it
so now it's taken what out of the
marketplace sell stops or sell liquidity
so what's the market going to look for
now
buy side liquidity that means it's got
to go higher to get that so energetic
move off that same daily low and it
creates that displacement
when it trades back down into that i'm
thinking okay well it's created this
short term high it's going to want to
run back up into that
but even if it doesn't
if i just get above
the bodies of these candles in here
and reach up into that 62 retracement
level on the hourly chart as i mentioned
right before i transitioned to the 15
minute time frame we reached up into
that 62 treatment level
so that would be an opportunity to be a
buyer here
and sell sure you know not sell short
but sell your long there and be done and
there's about 30 pips or so
that is a bread and butter trade
now that is not a style of trade that i
would recommend you as a new developing
student because it's going against the
order flow
these are types of moves that you want
to go back and back test and then
because you're doing that
what will happen is over months
and years
oh here we go
he's kicking the cane down the road
justifying why his concepts don't work
because i can't make him work that means
i didn't spend enough time that's his
excuse no it's the truth
you are going to look for a setup that
you watch in a video one time
and you're going to expect it to work
every single day
between
8 30 in the morning and 11 o'clock
and because you see what looks like a
fair value gap your bias is going to be
wrong or your expectation on the daily
candle itself the individual daily
candle which i'll talk about teach later
on this video yes it's an impactful
video tonight it may be boring but i got
a lot of stuff in this one
you're going to do something incorrectly
because you're in a rush because you
want to feel like
you have to know right away it works for
you
and there is no right of way
in trading
except for blowing your account because
if you don't know what you're doing
right away you're going to blow your
game okay it's what's going to happen so
i talk and i teach like this so that way
you know
you have been fortified with all these
things in advance what to look out for
what not to fall victim to how to think
about it a mental perspective on what
you're doing as a trader and what the
market should be doing
they have to be in agreement
and it takes time for that to happen it
doesn't happen by watching a video it
doesn't happen in
40 days okay it doesn't happen in
120 days it doesn't happen in the first
year it takes a little bit of time so
there's a lot of fumbling that you're
gonna have to do
to
figure out what you are looking for
because right now if you're just
starting
i'm promising you right now you have no
idea what you want to do and you're
probably not realizing that what you're
going to evolve into
the end results
of a speculator what you're doing as a
trading model and how you're trading the
markets
you don't even know what that is yet
that's a gradual thing that becomes
well
obvious
to someone that has taken this
on as a business not i'm going to school
i'm treating this like a college degree
well that's good when you first start
but you need to treat this like a
business
are you going to open up a business and
just not worry about it every day you're
going to be worrying about it every day
and you can put all your time and effort
into it that's how you should treat this
every day whether the transactions that
you make are profitable or not they're
all learning experiences
so that's why back testing is important
keeping a trade journal is important
annotating your charts and referring
back to how it worked off of that daily
chart which is what i'll talk about
tonight also
all right finally made the british pound
i'm going to go through this one pretty
quick because i've already spent a lot
of time jaw boning
all right so we had a little bit of a
fair bay got here rallied up in that
mention we were going to go below that
low we did and
as i mentioned on monday
we would have a
consolidation type sloppy type price
action environment where we're
not yet out of the holiday doldrum last
week a lot of money was on the sidelines
so we're waiting for
the smart money to put things in motion
and then it'll give us another bias as
to what we're looking for i'm
maintaining
a
bearish stance on
british pound versus us dollar because i
have a long-term bullish stance on
dollar so everything i think eventually
will bend the knee and go lower like
euro
pound aussie you know all those
currencies should go lower
if i'm wrong it'll trade above the fair
value gap if it does i'm wrong
as long as we're below the fair value
gap here i'm bearish on cable
and for new people cable is
pound versus dollars is the nickname for
it all right so here is the hourly chart
i'm just going to make it very simple
sweet to the point there's nothing here
absolutely zero nothing in this chart
nothing
to trade on not one thing
i can't look at this and say oh i gotta
set up here or i could do that there's
nothing
okay nothing here at all
take a deep breath and hear that again
there's nothing
on this chart
that's noteworthy
now think about that
does it feel comfortable
for somebody it doesn't feel comfortable
it's like what
there's got to be no there's nothing
here
that's the difference between what i
mentioned when i was looking at the
15-minute time frame on euro
i said how nice and clean it was
there's nothing clean in this price
action it's all back and forth back and
forth it's sloppy price action okay when
i say things are sloppy this is it
there's nothing that you can very easily
pick out as okay it's bullish it's gonna
pull down to a specific level and i
expect it to rally from there i don't
have any of that here nothing's in this
chart that's noteworthy or what i would
ever put money behind
so when it looks like this
we roll along
here is the 15-minute timeframe
sloppy
nothing here
so
when you go through your charts
if the marketplace that you're looking
at creates these scenarios where it's
just really messy
what's the first thing you should
consider
closing the charts turning your computer
off and go do something you love to do
spend time with your family good friends
and
hobby chasing whatever it is you're
doing otherwise outside of the markets
which is what all of you should have a
hobby outside of this not just watch my
videos or someone else's stuff
have something you do outside of trading
because you have to have an outlet and
otherwise you're going to burn out but
when the markets look like this you
don't touch them
i'm not talking about my community knows
that i have not been
really
and it breaks my heart because this has
always been my favorite pair
but i have not been touching british
pound
for a long time months
months
have gone by i've not done one trade in
this currency pair because this is
simply not delivering what i'm looking
for now some of you are thinking there's
proof right there they're changing the
algorithm no
it's just a mess right now
the whole world's all messed up
and trade
has been affected by that
so
it's going to show its hand
and manifest itself in the currencies
and this is what you have
trust me folks
in the offing
just over the horizon there's something
about to happen
and when that happens
these markets are gonna get real real
excited and they're gonna be moving
around a lot and everybody's gonna be
like man i'm gonna go and trade forex
trust me that day's coming what day is
it exactly i don't know but i'm being
patient until it manifests itself when
it does you're going to know it
everybody's going to know it but when
that creates that
man it's going to be what i call salad
days it just means easy trading so don't
don't get bummed out by looking at this
and thinking oh this is actually a good
thing because it teaches you when not to
be doing anything
when it feels alien it feels
counterintuitive or counterproductive or
the opposite of what you're in here
learning about you're thinking i'm
learning how to do this so i should be
able to open up a chart and go and find
a setup yes that's reasonable for a
neophyte but you want to learn how to do
this
profitably right i mean i would hope you
would want that
you want to do things consistently right
hopefully that's what you're trying to
do
i'm trying to promote that in you maybe
that's not what you thought about when
you first started but you want to be
able to know why you're doing something
and when not to do it
knowing when not to do something is
crucial because it'll keep you from
blowing your account it'll keep you from
being
undisciplined
and it'll give you peace of mind it'll
remove that fear of missing out
i don't have any fear of missing any of
this
price action here
it's not gonna i'm not losing any sleep
over it
and you shouldn't either and when your
market whatever that market is is
performing like this
just leave it alone take a break
you don't need to trade today
you don't need to trade tomorrow if you
feel that
understand this and listen okay
put the potato chips down
put your drink down
listen
you do not need
to trade every single day
despite what you're thinking and feeling
you don't
what you need to do is understand why
today or tomorrow is a day that's highly
probable
that your bias will deliver
to a target that you already know is
likely to be treated too and i'll talk
about that later in the video
but you have to have an expectation of
where it's going to go
where is it going next higher or lower
if you can't
reasonably outline that
then you're gambling
and if you're trying to trade every day
or you have this impulse that you have
to be treating you have to be in there
you have to be doing it
that's a gambler's mentality
i do not promote gamblers
i do not promote gambling i do not
promote over leveraging i do not promote
lucky
over leverage trading
i promote
one contract
work on trying to double your account
how long does it take i don't know
how long is it going to take you i don't
know
but that should be your goal
work with the lowest leverage and try to
double your account
if you don't have the patience to do
that
you're a gambler
you're trying to rush to make big money
and there's only one end result that
comes from that
you blow your account
i'm telling you folks if you don't
believe me
watch when you try to do it
and you're going to be coming back and
saying in the comment section
you were right i wish i would have
listened
and then the true test is will you
repeat the same error
thinking you're just
weren't
schooled enough yet okay you didn't have
the skill set yet now you do because you
watch two more videos and then you do it
again
then you'll write in the comment section
i just blew my account because i didn't
do this and i didn't do that what's
wrong with me
i'm telling you what's wrong with you
you're rushing
and you're gambling
and i don't teach that so you're doing
what
everything i'm telling you not to do
so are you really ready to be taught
no
once you break yourself and you have no
more money in your account
and you have no more money to put back
in the account
and you are questioning whether or not
trading is for you
that
that is the student that's ready
because they have nothing to go in and
gamble with
and it's all up from there
or they say trading is not for me and
guess what
that's the right decision
because you know yourself better than
anyone else
if you
decide that you know what
i've tried this i've tried that it isn't
working
trading is not for me well god bless you
you've probably saved yourself a fortune
because there's a lot of people that
this will never work for because they
are not disciplined they're not
responsible they're not going to they're
not going to follow the rules and
they're not going to do things as they
were taught
and they'll find fault with everything
but themselves
and that is mental illness
i experienced it
i know it firsthand
and it's painful
it's embarrassing it is
deflating it feels
horrible
but
it's not permanent
it's absolutely corrected by certain
things and skill sets replacing bad
habits that's all
but it takes responsible discipline
and a routine and adhering to it and
being accountable to someone
who is that someone you trust say look
this is how i'm going to be doing
my studies in my trading and i just want
to show you what what i'm doing
and it's better if you're in a community
that is like-minded and that's what i
try to foster i try to create that and
unfortunately what happens is people on
the outside that usually take shots at
me or you think this or that
about what i do what i teach or my
students
they'll say it's a cult
when all i'm trying to do is empower
that individual to be an independent
thinker i don't want you to believe me
or anything i'm saying i want you to go
in look at these markets with the lens
i'm providing you
if i'm a fraud and these don't work
you're going to know right away
if you're really putting the effort in
you're going to know right away if these
things are valid or not
but
for those that have done the work
nobody's convincing them otherwise now
that it absolutely is the truth
and it's consistent but when i say
consistent that's not the same thing as
it happens every single day
in the same pair that you look at like
for instance none of the things i'm
teaching
are existing in this pair right now
that's why my private group and none of
you have seen anything with this pair
from me for a long long time
because it's not
showing clear clean price action so
since it's not doing it i take my hand
off of it and my attention goes
elsewhere
where has it been diverted to
index futures
index futures will have this type of
price action soon
does it mean that
index futures trading is dead no
does it mean the algorithm has stopped
working no it just means that it's being
heavily manipulated so what does that
mean for you internally don't touch it
this is a rattlesnake if you see a
rattlesnake on a trail and you're
walking down there and you hear that
rattle i've never seen a rattlesnake
live in front of me okay but i'm telling
you what i'd recognize it if it started
rallying and i'm gonna stand still
and i'm gonna look around and find it
and wherever it is i'm backing away from
it
simple
well i treat these times
in the marketplace just like that
because there were times where i looked
at this and said i'm better than average
bear i'll get in here and find the honey
well there you go i got stung
that's why i'm talking to you like this
folks
you gave me your time you gave me your
ear
and you're giving me your trust
i'm giving you the best advice
anybody could ever give you
don't discount it as just
talking
droning on
pontification
no
this is real insight folks it's three
decades of it i lost a lot of money not
doing what i'm teaching you
to
do like i'm teaching you the very things
that i fell victim to and how to avoid
it
wouldn't you want to do that
i mean i i would literally
give everything i had back in 1992 if i
had someone
like i'm trying to be for all of you
i'm trying to be that person that has
real world experience
that knows what's going on proves it
and i'm trying to show you
lower your expectations on yourself
don't try to be an olympic trader okay
you don't need to be olympic
just be consistent if you find a bread
and butter set up once a week
you can do a lot with that
it just takes
consistency
and money management the money
management does the heavy lifting
the the hardest thing is finding
something you're going to trust and stay
with
and when it doesn't deliver or when you
can't find it in your market
it doesn't change it it just means you
stand still
that's it
and it's hard
it's real hard because what happens if
you go
two weeks without taking a trade
what's that going to do for your mindset
for some of you it's going to try to be
nuts
others
it's going to make you want to change
the style of trading
and they're both wrong
30 years taught me that
books didn't teach me that
books talked about system hopping but
you don't really know that lesson until
you blow accounts
do dozens of different trading styles
and approaches
that don't work
they have no sound logic in the
marketplace why it's doing this and
doing that diversions indicator this
harmonic that all those things
are something that promotes the idea of
a religious view on the marketplace and
not just time and price
time and price is not a religion
it's the truth that's what these markets
deliver on
look at the chart what's
what's at the bottom of the chart
time
what's on the vertical axis
price
why are you complicating it you're
saying i'm complicating it why are you
you're adding triangles and shapes and
all these things and moving averages and
all this stuff on your chart instead of
just looking at what these
candlesticks are documenting
where was it
an hour ago where was it last friday
was it likely go
today where is it likely to go by the
end of the week
if you ask those questions every single
time you sit in front of the charts
you'll have a pretty good idea of what
it's likely to do what happened every
single time no
but by itself that right there was just
mentioned to you
that was the first steps for me to stop
looking at those books
those books are going to tell you things
that ninety percent of people that trade
lose money on
let's be let's be honest folks let's
just call it like it is okay
all of those books
all those teachers all these youtube
channels everybody out there is talking
about the same things
that result in the 90 percent blowout
of live traders
so why are you holding on to that stuff
with a death grip
no no no
it's gonna work for me
i did that same thing
and i lost
blue accounts over and over again crying
tears weeping
why can't i figure it out those things
are in a 90 percent bracket of losing
money
if you walk down road
and you see these
glasses of water
free to drink
you walk over here you pick it up
you sniff it just doesn't feel right and
you take a step back and watch other
people walk over and they assume they
take a drink they start choking and drop
dead right there
how many
people
do you need to see pick up that glass
take a drink and drop dead before you
realize it's probably not a good idea
for you to have a swig
but unfortunately
marketing is
what it is okay there's always some
clever little way gimmicks is what they
are
of making it seem like there's this new
twist on something old
okay
and
bad logic no matter how much lipstick
you put on it is still bad logic
and you can't change that
so
the idea is for you to find it in the
price action
the things you're looking for on the
chart or in price action they must
appear clearly
in price
and if it's not clear
if it's real muddy and just choppy like
this it's indicating to you that this is
not a market the smart money is going to
sit down and say yes we're going to
operate today
it's heavily manipulated it's not being
allowed to trade freely it's held
so if it's being held and manipulated do
you want to be in there
because if you are doing that you're
gambling
so don't do that
all right so we made it to
the futures portion of this long-winded
video about nonsense right
all right so
daily chart on the e-mini s p all right
so we have the market trading down into
a very very deep discount if you look at
the
range low here
why am i not picking this one here
because this move started
there okay that's what i'm looking at
this move these are relatively equal
lows so i'm just going to move over to
the most recent swing low why is this
swing low it will candle to the left of
it that has a higher load than this one
and the candle to the right of it has a
higher low than that one so that swing
low
that one here
to here that's my daily dealing range
okay the market has recently retraced
back down in about fifty percent
equilibrium of that price move okay so
that's what we're annotating here about
halfway is what really essentially is
being shown
and also
because of that
the market is likely to
create a little bit of a retracement now
on this video i did a teaching called
purge and revert
okay and
i'm going to talk a little bit about
that tonight and how it's a little
somewhat of a variation on that idea and
premise
but
i want you to think about how the market
created this
low here
and then the reaction and price delivery
on this day
here on the 19th
and on monday night i was mentioning to
my private group and you all know i
mentioned this i'm actually going to put
a clip from monday's video in here so
that way the folks that were not in that
group they would have the
and
the insights that was mentioned there
that way you can see what i'm showing
here is not pointing to something that
after the fact i wanted you the both
communities to appreciate what i'm
teaching
not to beat the chess not to show off
not to say on smart okay but i want you
to understand what i'm showing you here
is rooted on sound logic it's not chance
it's not gambling
so because this daily chart has retraced
down into about half of the move from
that low that high so we basically went
back to equilibrium or roughly a short
term what discount so because of that
there's a likelihood that the daily bias
is going to be bullish
on this day here and this here
now
we're going to look at this candle
because
midpoint of this candle
that right there is the mean threshold
mean threshold is the half
point okay
or median of
a order block that's what this line here
is representing
okay so when i drop down into the hourly
and lower time frame
that right there is rooted on this up
close candle why am i using that up
close candle because from this high down
into the 50 retracement of that low and
high where the market goes back to
equilibrium or short-term discount that
means the bias has a likelihood now
folks listen
you want to be taught about bias i'm
teaching it
listen
it went down to equilibrium or
short-term
discount
the next day
we can expect it to go higher
so what do we do with that information
if it's likely to go higher the next day
or the day after that
what happens if the next day is down or
if it doesn't move okay you go into the
next day expecting it to go higher
that's it that's all you're doing
it's not hard right
but you want perfect
you want your recipe
for those chocolate chip cookies to come
out like grandma's and sometimes guess
what it isn't going to be like that
you're going to have to take it
the way it gives it to you and sometimes
your cookies ain't going to rise this
just so happens that
what i outlined on monday
panned out but that's what i'm referring
to every single week
i'm outlining something
that
because of the logic
that's that one good setup that you
should be focusing on as my students
what am i going to show you here in this
this is your premium array that means
it's going to draw up into that it could
be this candle is low
because it's the order block they are
shorter block
why
should i be concerned about this candle
because in this move here right before
this displacement on the downside this
was the last up closed candle
so you have several targets here you
have the
candle low
the open
the mean threshold half the order block
and you have the high the high is the
less likely
the easiest is one down here
so on this candle here when we expect it
to go higher we can see it trade up into
that candle's low
we can see it trade up into that
candle's body
we can see it straight up into that
candles mean threshold
so
it's not a matter of me picking levels
and saying look how smart i am
look it hit that level but what about
those other levels you didn't see
for those people that think like that or
if you ever hear that or see people talk
like that here's what you respond to
internally don't even worry about them
because
they're not interested in learning all
they're trying to do is
be a distraction to you
i promise you if you put the work in you
will see the results
you're looking for the lowest
hanging fruit which one's the easiest
for you now if you look at that in
respect to this candle here so if you're
buying on this day if you're buying down
here below the opening which i'm going
to teach in detail
in this video if you're buying down
below the opening
not that i use this particular opening
price but let's say you did say you
bought this
specific day below that opening price on
that candle right there and you were
buying below you could find
profitability
reaching just up into that candle's low
draw that out in time
you can use the body draw that out in
time here hits it well today not
yesterday's trading because that was
yesterday's stream and you have this
here
being
hit there and he had the mean threshold
of the order block there so there's
several targets
now for you as a developing student you
want to pick the easiest one which is
this one here
and be content if it hits that
now blending that with the idea of purge
and revert now purge and revert you can
do a youtube search on that it's in my
youtube channel
it's a teaching that i'm going to allow
you to go back and look at yourself but
it's kind of built on that same premise
here we went down
we took out short term low sell side
liquidity see that
right below here so we purged cell stops
and it's going to revert back to the
high in the last three days
so day one two three that's this day
here
so this candle is high
it can draw back into so we have the s
this
quarter block low
but then we have this idea here where
the move dropping down
that high is going to have what resting
above it
buy stops why would there be buy stops
there because traders that are short
they're going to trail their stop loss
right there
it's going to be more easily understood
when we're dropping the lower time
frames but just know that that's the
framework i'm showing here you are going
to have to listen to this part of the
video a few times
don't be
against that okay don't don't feel like
i don't want to do that trust me put the
time in to listen to this portion of the
video because this is exactly what
nobody is teaching you because they
don't know it but this is what goes on
and it's also the reason why i told my
private group on monday night what took
place yesterday
all right so we're dropping down to the
hourly chart and here is the e-mini s p
june contract
market traded down into that
short term low ran out sell stops here
or sell side liquidity so it purged that
liquidity then we had all this
sloppiness
starting the week and then we dropped
down
and rallied up doesn't look too clean
and clear in here and does it it's okay
it's about to change we're going to drop
down the lower time frame because we
have a bias
i mentioned on monday
that i felt that this was going to go
higher and clear up all this here
and that was the draw on liquidity
now here's that part of the video i said
when we get into the discussion about
live sessions what am i going to be
doing
basically what i'm going to show you a
clip of when i get to the 15 minute time
frame i'm going to show you the clip
from monday night's private mentorship
video where i discuss before it happened
where the e-mini s p was likely to go
why i felt it was likely to happen and
i'm going to amplify that here so that
way both communities can appreciate what
it is that i'm going to be doing with
intraday price action
the guys over in goldman sachs
and you've been with me for a while you
know who i'm talking about uh they like
to say that intraday is just noise and
one of those guys actually said he tried
very hard to make it work and if anybody
tells you the injury trading is
profitable and you can do it
consistently run away from them because
they're a con artist okay
it's kind of funny that you know
i'm proving
technical science okay because it exists
it repeats but you have to know what
you're looking for okay and
i'm going to show you that here
i mentioned the opening price
on the midnight candle and i mentioned
the opening price at 8 30 and there's a
lot of confusion as to what that means
and what am i supposed to be doing with
that information i'm going to cover that
in this video too but i want you to look
at this hourly chart
and just see this movement here
to here see that
you don't have any reference points
inside the hourly chart here that's okay
i'm going to show it to you
in amplification to what i was showing
my group on monday night
before it happened
do you see how level these two highs are
here
see that
this is what i dub relative equal highs
that right there
engineers
buy stops
for anyone that chases this going
they're lower
to think that this is the area where
resistance is so their stop will be
placed above that
does it take rocket science to
understand that no
every book tells every trader that reads
the book that stops get above the old
high
and this is resistance because it went
here stopped went lower it tried one
more time here and then went lower so
this is
strong resistance now
granted
i'm not trying to make a case the hourly
timeframe is strong okay
but there's a lot of people that trade
these lower time frames and they'll see
that as what
formidable resistance
so they'll feel that this is safe the
market should keep going lower they
broke this low so that means it's going
to keep going lower and when price
starts going sideways like this slightly
up it's going to look like what to them
it's a bear flag
so they're going to look at this high
down to that level and project that same
movement lower as a measured move
and this type of thing happens
because they didn't use the contacts
that i'm providing you
both communities understanding how the
markets move from discount to premium
premium to discount that's it
and then what pd arrays within the
current market structure
and what narrative
so what is narrative what is that
well
we have the market trading down into
that short term low
below old lows about 50 of its daily
range
that i mentioned on the daily timeframe
so we purged the sale stops
where is it going to go
higher why it needs to go to buy side
because it's now collected sell stops so
smart money is going to do what
offset those buy orders that they used
to pair up with the sell stops below
these lows they bought those sales
valves so now they're net long how do
they get out
they have to sell them to willing buyers
but at this point down here and over
here
who's going to be buying from them at a
higher price
the value stops that are resting about
here
so you have to think algorithmically how
do you pair your orders
if you don't have this mindset going in
before you click the enter button of
your trade
you are gambling
you have no idea what you're doing
you're trying to guess you're in there
seeing
what would happen if i did this
and then when it works you're telling
yourself wow if i did that with real
money i could quit my job in three
months wrong
and when it's bad you're thinking oh
well i wouldn't have took that trade
anyway
i'm really cool and astute i'm
an apt pupil of price action
no
you're a gambler you're dabbling with a
demo account and you're not learning
anything you're conditioning yourself
to believe
that these sensations that you feel
when it's right it's skill
and when it's not
well that was just you just playing
around you weren't really doing anything
serious about it
and that creates toxic thinking and it
builds a false sense of security and
in certain instances
some individuals literally go out and
say well i'm going to put live money in
there because
you know i got lucky a couple times and
i could afford uh you know a couple
thousand dollars and i could do this and
i could do that if i made that
and that's what that's what everybody
does they fall victim to that
i don't want you doing that you have to
have a real reason why you're doing
something
even in demo
otherwise you're teaching yourself
to think
well
and properly about what it is that
you're trying to do in these
marketplaces
so the logic is we're looking for to run
about here
and now think about that in this area
here
here's the 19th
on tuesday
i told the group that it was likely to
go to here
and i'll show you that clip when we drop
into 15 minute timeframe but they'll
think about what does your daily candle
look like if it's going to likely go up
to here and we're down here
it's going to create what a little bit
of a movement down
make the low of the day
then rally up to clean that little well
and we're not trying to predict the
closing price on the daily candle we're
not trying to do that
we're trying to participate in a move
in the morning session that gets us long
that allows us to run up into this area
here
and that would be your target you're not
trying to get the move that goes all the
way up to 45 90 if it was to do
something like that i'm not suggesting
it is but i'm saying that
you have to pick these periods in the
marketplace where it makes sense for you
to anticipate and expect a certain move
to begin and originate in and where it
ends or where it finds its terminus
so
point of origin
terminus
buy orders on smart money
sell orders
on smart money
retail buy orders
retail sell orders
that's the continuum
that goes between smart money and retail
you have to change your
thought process about what you're
looking at in the charts and that is
narrative
looking for the daily delivery on that
candle judas swing buy below the opening
price
expect displacement to the upside run
into
liquidity
offset
sell to buyers
move to the sidelines you're done
now what does that look like on a lower
time frame
here's the 15 minute time frame
here is the relative equal highs buy
side liquidity wrestling there
look at this price action in here
what do you see
pause the video this is that moment
where you want to study and look at it
okay i'm going to continue now
all right so here we have
this low why am i picking that low why
not that low michael why didn't you pick
this low michael
this here is a range that we worked in
and i mentioned this is brutal when i
was discussing it with my
students on monday and it's commentary
but this movement here this is the most
recent swing low it rallied up and it
created a higher height right above
these relative equal highs so there
that 0.1 to 0.2 that's your dealing
range okay
i'm using that because it's the most
energetic most recent low and high
this is where i think the market's going
to go up to
because i think all of this movement
down here
basically has accumulated
all the cell stops
so now
smart money's heavily net long
and they are sitting on all these
you know
counterparty traders
that either were knocked down the
marketplace and they absorbed all of
their cell stops
or
they're caught offside and retail is
trying to go lower
it doesn't make a difference i'm not
suggesting that you should even waste
any time trying to figure out what that
is i'm just saying that below old lows
sell stocks below old highs is buy
stocks just have it in mind it's just
that simple
now
knowing that by itself is not enough you
need to know what is likely to occur
here is the midnight
candle in new york
okay
how do you know that over here on
trading view click this little area down
here it'll pop up a list of time zones
and such scroll to new york always put
your trading view chart on new york i
don't care where you live you do that
everything i'm teaching you will line up
midnight opening price the opening price
is here
draw that out in time
and that's your new york midnight
opening price
this is the price i want to preferably
be buying below now there are instances
where the opening price will be lower
and then the market is trading higher
but doesn't go back below the midnight
opening price
this is why i said 8 30 opening price 8
30 is when a news embargo lifts and a
lot of news comes in around 8 30
typically
and i use that opening price there now
in this instance this is why i'm
teaching it to both groups today because
this is kind of like a
just a
dandy of a setup means it's really good
i like these types of setups i'm going
to show you here when it delivers
something like this it's almost like
it's presenting it to you on a silver
platter like if you really really want a
good little
setup that's going to just just be a
real nice cracker jacket just delivers
nicely it's this one here okay
if we're bullish
okay and i'm assuming that you'll trust
me when i show you the video clip from
my private mentorship group folks that
are in my private mentorship group
if i'm sharing something that was edited
if i've changed that video in any way to
make it seem or sound like something
that really didn't take place on monday
at the 13 minute mark of that video
please say so in the comment section
okay you're welcome to roast me okay i'm
only telling you that because the
comment section is open on my videos you
guys can say whatever you want to say i
don't care
bottom line is i'm
proven it okay i'm proving it that way
you can feel comfortable learning from
me there's no sales pitch here anymore
just put down all your reservations and
just grab a pen and pad and listen
and i promise you what you're looking
for it'll come the confusion you're
getting about the opening prices at
midnight and the opening prices at new
york
8 30 a.m
last ditch for power 3
is 8 30. what does that mean if
the opening price at midnight if you're
bullish is lower than price is trading
at
around 8 30 or after 8 30
then it's likely it's not going to be a
factor
then you use 8 30.
if
there is a day like this one here where
we have the opening price at midnight
here we're already below it and then at
after 8 30 we're below it again still
below the midnight candles opening price
we're really in a discount
like we're really really cheap
on the day
when we're bullish now think about what
i've outlined so far
it seems like a long way here
but everything i've discussed is
paramount and crucial for you to
understand why this is occurring
because these are the things that are
going to repeat
don't take my word for it
start back testing and logging your
charts like this and you will see these
events
repeating
because it's algorithmic
it will not do it every single day but
every day
it will be present in something that's
why i say with my motto it's every week
every day and it won't stop
it does not mean every week every day
and it won't stop every single
individual market because you have to be
able to navigate some days
it may not happen in the futures
it might be in forex or it might be in
bonds
so you have to be
flexible in that regard okay but every
single week there's this type of setup
every single week there's a setup like
this
inside this range it moved from here to
here and then started retracing down
after midnight notice that so all of
this here is a judah swing judo swing is
the move that's
opposite to what you expect the daily
range to be
so if we're bullish and we think it's
going up here
we like this movement going down we love
it
now you may not feel comfortable buying
the london or overnight lows that's fine
you don't need to wait for 8 30.
if we drop below 8 30 opening price
and here's the here's the kicker we're
below the opening price at midnight two
we are really really oversold
does it take indicators to see that no
did you
require some kind of divergence nope how
about a fibonacci nope
easy isn't it
visually see what's being shown here
below the opening price you want to be a
buyer at midnight by itself that's
always the
the basis of what i'm trying to do each
day
then
if we get a 8 30 candle that opens below
the midnight candle and then we have a
movement below that
that move here also is like a micro
judas swing for the session of new york
this is the judas swing on the daily
range or the daily candle
so this is
basically building the low the daily
candle this is building below the new
york session
both are using the power 3 concept which
is accumulation manipulation
distribution
so what we're saying is this movement
below the opening price at 8 30 and
below the opening price at midnight each
move lower is the trap
it's the snare that catches traders
thinking it's going down
we are looking for that move we're
looking for that drop down
not just
any indiscriminate drop in price we're
looking for a very specific thing
now i'm down into a five minute chart
same things i had on the 15 minute time
frame i now have just
showing and representing it on a
five-minute chart
i want to take a look at price study
think about what you see in price action
here pause the video
if you're not ready i'm about to begin
right there
see that fair value got right there
see these two down close candles
that that's your order block that's
bullish
your favorite value got
and 8 30 we have a drop down
at 8 30 we're looking to the left
and see where are
our short term swing lows because we
want to absorb
sell stops because smart money will pair
that with their buys
and we're looking for an imbalance
preferably
and we just happen to have it also with
an order block so a lot of things
happening here it comes down hits it
and then rallies
8 30
opening price we find it come back down
into it find some support
and it springs aggressively above
the short-term highs
by itself that right there's enough
that's a that's a beautiful
run on s p and that would be enough
you don't need to have the objective up
here
but if you're holding it for the daily
range you're going to wait for it to
reach up in here and it does so here now
in this area here knows what happens it
rallies up and consolidates during lunch
and around the two o'clock hour going to
three o'clock we run back down into
cell stops traders that have trailed
their stop-loss up because they don't
want to lose any of their profits
and then they pump it one more time up
into the pm session or afternoon move
into the liquidity that was outlined
relative equal highs on the 15-minute
time frame
here is the one-minute chart
how can you apply what i've been
teaching you on the youtube model well
here it is
here is the low
forming
and now find the setup
that would occur with the youtube model
so we're seeing a movement here
the bias is bullish we're looking for
continuation on the upside
we have a target based on that 15 minute
time frame relative equal highs
what does the model i'm teaching on
youtube
where does that exist here
again pause the video
use this moment to really look for it
yourself if you just wait for me to show
it to you you waste the opportunity on
learning
all right
don't be upset if you don't get it it's
okay but
i'm going to show you now what you
should be seeing
okay the market has a run above
is short-term high so we have a shift in
market structure that's bullish
what's this a fair value gap i trade
down into it hammers it
three consecutive down close candles
that's what your order block
all consecutive
because we're looking at one minute
candles
that is the order block with a fair
value got
buy it there and then comes back down
retests
sends it higher and then one more time
new york midnight candle opening price
opportunity again it trades up into the
new york midnight opening candle trades
back into
another gap
trades into the midpoint of that rallies
up
consolidates and then expands up into
our objective that was outlined in that
15 minute time frame the relative equal
highs
let's dig a little bit deeper
notice the price low here
it's around uh what is that
70 something 476 or something like that
just for the sake of
clarity we'll just say 43.77 okay
43.77 is around here
on this day now what i've shown is the
daily chart but on an open
high low close bar
not a candlestick
because i want you to graphically see
what's occurring here now this opening
price is not the midnight candle opening
price because you can see it's about
what is it 4404
and a half or something like that
that would be
just above where this opening price is
so
my opening price is just a little bit
above this opening price
so i'm not using the opening price on
the daily chart on trading view
you can there's nothing really
inherently wrong about that but i don't
personally do that so that way for
clarity and continuity i don't use the
opening price on the daily candle i
physically go into my chart and use the
opening price at midnight once that
candle begins trading
at midnight that's your
opening candle
price for midnight
and same thing for 8 30. as soon as 8 30
starts
that opening price on the candle that's
my opening press 8 30. so i have to wait
till 8 30 scandal or 8 30 exactly the
time right when that happens that's my
opening price
i'm not referring to any opening or
closing price on the candle
okay
what i'm forecasting with my analysis
concepts and teaching my students is i'm
teaching them to anticipate these types
of moves
so
the relative equal highs on that 50
minute time frame is basically this
candle's high
go back and look at your charts and
you'll see that's exactly what that is
so this short term run below this short
term low
is taking all the sale stops on that day
on the 18th
the 18th
that evening i was telling my students
that that is when i anticipate that the
s p should go higher and run for those
relatively equal highs on the 15-minute
time frame because we've already went
down into a deep discount daily chart
and it's likely to come back up and grab
that liquidity even if it's just going
to keep going lower that's still okay it
doesn't change anything even if it goes
higher from here and i'm wrong it's
reversed and makes a longer term rally
higher i don't care
we're looking for surgical strikes
intraday for these markets these index
futures
but there has to be some kind of logic
so if we look at what we've done over
here
and how this fits the daily candle
what i'm suggesting is
my opening price because at midnight
we're a little bit higher
and i don't need to catch that very very
short-term low that's lower than this
one okay because that low is
right here and we're actually a little
bit lower than that
to the left
i don't need that
this is the reference point at which my
methods would see as an entry point
so that's real close
that's like right in here that's real
close to the low of the day
i don't need to have the load of day you
don't need to have the low of the day
but when you get to the new york
session opening at equities 9 30 in the
morning new york time
this run in here
that sets it up another opportunity here
so we have optimal trade entry here if
you want to trade the ote pattern teach
on the youtube channel
then it rallies up
and then you're running all the way up
the daily range
until we get to this candle's high here
which is the relative equal highs on the
15-minute time frame go back into your
charts and you'll see that okay this is
what back testing does it gives you the
logic so what's occurring here is what
it's purging cell stops and reverting
back to the high in the last three days
boom
now
for some of you that need to hear me
and what i said in the video clip in my
private group i'll play that for you now
50 minute time frame ump futures june
contract 2022
again just
brutal back and forth just
consolidations
and
there isn't really a whole lot in here
that i like that it may want to reach
for except for just the old relative
equal highs to me it looks too perfect
it looks too pristine
too classic support resistance idea okay
so
you know a lot of people want to sell
short they want to get short they want
to be bearish on this thing and notice
what's happening with all that you know
we're going to run higher it brought it
breaks lower then they send it one more
time higher clean up that drop it once
more lower and now
to me it looks like they're just gonna
send this thing vertical
to clean that up if it doesn't do that
and it starts to trade lower
i'm not chasing it i'm not trying to
follow suit with that i just want to
give it more time to find out what it
wants to do because to me right now
we're so deep in discount on the daily
chart it can come up to this level here
and really not upset anything if it's
going to continue going lower that's my
point in saying that
all right so hopefully
i've covered a lot of stuff tonight i
talked about a lot of things that
students have asked me to
touch on in my private group and i've
obviously seen some of the comments
referring to the opening price what is
the opening price what is it why should
i use it and how do i differentiate the
importance between the opening at
midnight new york and that of the 8 30
candle in new york session
so hopefully it's been a little bit more
clear for you but the main thing is
you're looking for
an opportunity to anticipate the
expansion of that daily candle in one
direction or the other either higher or
lower
and in that direction higher or lower
where is it likely to go and the easiest
thing i teach is old highs and all lows
and relative equal highs and relative
equal lows those two ways of looking for
pools of liquidity are the easiest most
visual representations of targeting
there is
it's simple
because it's based on
sound logic that the algorithm will
never be changed
because of
because old highs right above that's
always going to be by side liquidity buy
stops are going to rest above that
and below old lows there are cell stops
resting below that it's always going to
be that way folks it always will be that
way
don't send me comments in the videos
please don't send me emails asking me
that question do i think by me teaching
is it going to break it are they going
to change their route they're not
changing anything they can't change it
because that's the way these markets
book that's the way it is folks it's the
way it is
the sky is blue
not all the time
but the sky is blue
the grass is green not all the time
but the grass is green
you follow what i'm saying
so these are rules we live by
sometimes there's going to be these
outliers these things that creep in that
cause your interpretation of price to be
incorrect
and guess what that means
you did something wrong
does that mean that you're a failed
trader no it just means you made a
mistake that you're human i'm human i'm
gonna make mistakes i'm gonna read it
wrong i'm gonna interpret it wrong i'm
going to react too late i'm going to
react too soon
i'm going to anticipate things that are
not likely to occur and then either i
have to take the loss or i reverse
these are all things that you're going
to have to be met with in time
and you're going to have to see whether
or not
this is for you
and some of you
in all honesty
this isn't going to be for you not my
stuff alone but trading in general
because it's risky
and don't ever think
that
something magical is going to happen if
you're not consistently profitable in a
demo account and you're not consistently
finding setups executing them
getting in and getting out with
confidence
on the lowest
of leverage
see that's what i don't like about i
know some of you
are you
i'm i don't know how you guys link like
when you i don't know how you guys link
in the comments
people link me
but
every time i try to link someone either
i'm putting their name in wrong
it never links it so i never do that but
they'll make videos
and i see it as a mention in youtube
sometimes it's a day or two late so it's
not like i'm ignoring you but for
whatever reason i get these
notifications that are days late
and i see folks that are doing videos
and are recording themselves actually
entering in the trades on the paper
trading application trading view which
is great but they're using leverage that
everybody knows that they are not
really in a position to afford
so i know it feels cool it feels flashy
and you know
it might feel like you're playing a
video game
i don't want you to have that mindset i
want you to think about how you can make
this as boring
as possible because if you make it
boring
you won't be a victim of your emotions
it'll be just like you go to work i'm
not saying you love going to your job
but you know doing those things that you
go to work to do
yields you what that paycheck at the end
of the week
that's your minimum expectation get to
work and do what's expected of you
anything above that then obviously it's
up to your manager to decide whether or
not it's warranted
to receive anything more than your
standard pay
but you need to treat this just like
that it's a business
so
when you're doing your executions don't
be influenced by trolls or hecklers in
the comments section
saying oh well you know you you're doing
micro lots
one micro lot it's not about that size
of leverage it's about you finding the
consistency of getting in
knowing what you're looking for in terms
of managing the risk in terms of the
points or pips
not the money
not
the money the money is a derivative of
doing the right things
in the beginning you need to focus on
doing the right things the logic needs
to be there not the reaction emotionally
and psychologically to
fake demo money
don't do that
you're actually
causing yourself
barriers it really is creating a barrier
for you to find success
if you do those things
it feels cool it feels fun like yeah if
i would have been a real trade i could
have made this much money
but you didn't
so let that be the reality you didn't
so you're really tricking and
conditioning yourself improperly
which is the opposite of what i teach my
students with back testing
whereas i teach my students when they do
their back testing in their annotations
they write in there
as if they saw the trade happening
beforehand
and by doing that it's like self-talk
you're speaking to your subconscious and
your subconscious is going to refer back
to that
as a false memory
because it's a positive reinforcement it
teaches you because of pattern
recognition and
over and over again being exposed to the
same elements and you're
reinforcing yourself with your own
comments and your own cheerleading
you're fortifying
your expectations going forward on
this pattern yielding something in the
past not that it's going to absolutely
work in the future all the time but
we as
price action traders we look for
signatures that repeat
nothing is guaranteed that's going to
repeat that's why we have to have stop
loss that way
we know that there's risk in this market
every market in trading has risk
but if you're going to hone an edge or a
model
you need to have a framework and you
start by back testing and at back
testing in your annotations you talk
about how it feels good to see this move
deliver as i was expecting from this
fair value gap up to this bicep
liquidity pool during the hours of this
and this and this is what my model
suggests i should be looking for each
day
notice i didn't say
i was stupid i was playing video games
and i was watching some youtuber talking
about some nonsense and i missed the
trade setup i should have known better
never do that kind of stuff not in your
back testing not in anything that you're
recording in your journal
everything has to be positive you're
sugar coating everything
in your back testing
you're tricking your brain
to see that as experience
so that way when you see it forming live
you're not going to be
in fear and trepidation of oh it's going
to be a painful experience and again
when right now
you don't have the experience yet but
because you keep logging it with back
testing
you're filling your brain up with a lot
of pseudo memories
so
you're doing the
the ideal
utilization of a lie
this is called what it is you're lying
to yourself
and children love this
you're lying to yourself with positive
reinforcement
okay so that way when you look at
something forming in real time it will
be remembered and you won't have any
negative triggering
because of
toxic annotations or toxic thinking
you'll have memories of oh yeah i
remember seeing that in your
subconscious you may not see it or
understand it or feel it when you're
doing it but your subconscious reverts
back to those experiences that you've
logged with positive reinforcement
don't take a demo account
and do that same thing with
i'm going to over leverage my demo
account or paper trading account and do
a size of leveraging that there's no way
i would be able to number one put the
trade on because i would be too scared
because i'm a new trader and i'm going
to be afraid of any fluctuation if i put
on a million dollars worth of leverage i
can't really sit through the
spread opening up on me when i put the
trade on initially let alone weather the
ups and downs and initially you know as
the trade pans out
you're teaching yourself
to anticipate a hopeful outcome with
ridiculous leverage
and you're teaching yourself
that that negative drawdown that you're
experiencing
is not something to be worried about
because
you're only looking for the
dopamine hit if you did it right and
that video game high score
means absolutely nothing in your growth
you've created a speed bump and
sometimes a barrier to being
consistently profitable
think
when you do those things
what you're saying is
i'm putting blinders on
i don't really see the real risk here
because it's paper money and i want to
show on my video a really high
profitability
in the end result
because you want clout
every single time
i see one of my students whether from
the youtube community or some of my
mentorship students that are in private
group that have youtube channels
they'll make a video and they'll use
really high leverage
but they may have executed extremely
well manage the whole thing from
beginning to end
my comment consistently is
next time
even though i've commented and said
you're well done on the other stuff i
will always tell them
next time use realistic leverage that's
my only
criticism
not because
of me trying to kick the legs out from
underneath them i'm not trying to steal
their steam or their drive or motivation
i'm being
the best influence i can because
i don't want them
filling their head up with things that
are toxic because that's that's what
that is
it's all about clout and you don't want
clout
you want consistently profitable
trust me being consistently profitable
feels a whole lot better than clout on
the internet
i don't need everybody to love me and
look at me i've been here for a long
time and there's a lot of people that
hate me for no justified reason but the
point is none of that stuff causes me to
lose any sleep
so don't invite those environments where
other people can influence your
performance
your expectations on yourself your model
your trading
none of these jokers on the internet
should have any influence on you none
they don't have it on me
why
because i have
rooted
deep rooted sound logic in the things
that i'm looking for
you all are experiencing that you're
seeing it firsthand you're seeing it
and it's encouraging so don't make the
mistakes of adding these little things
these flavor enhancers to your
experience
okay and calling them something that
they're not because they're not going to
make you better
they're going to actually hurt you
by over leveraging just because you want
to see big numbers show up on your when
your trade
everybody watching knows that you put a
demo trade on everybody knows you put
paper trade on
they know
so
don't
you know
parade around with it like it's a big
deal it's not
so the way you make it
more respectful
to your viewers and also
remove the element of clout chasing
use the smallest leverage
let people that want to heckle let them
heckle
you worry about being consistent if you
want to showcase your skill set
do the executions and use the lowest
leverage possible
and let that be the example that you're
showcasing
so i think i've gone through the whole
laundry list of things that i'm supposed
to cover tonight in this and i know it's
a very very long video i know it's
probably long-winded for
some of you to like to see me get right
to the point but
this whole thing was the point and it
really is a clinic
on how to operate and engage
the marketplace using what i'm teaching
even with what i'm teaching in the
youtube model
and i'm just so
thankful
that the community has really
received it well
um the comment section is just the love
fest and i absolutely love it
please don't call me the goat i won't
ever heart your comment if you do that
it's not i'm
ignoring you i just never do that um
don't call me a king i don't i don't
like those things either
appreciation or you know the things that
you've observed in your own development
i love reading those
um
i just thank you for all of your uh your
support of the channel i think it's
wonderful i think the community is
growing and i think it's just a healthy
experience for all of us and i'm finding
a great deal of pleasure doing it which
is what i was hoping i'd get from it so
228 000
followers that's uh it's pretty crazy
like
it's really growing fast at this pace
i'll probably have a quarter million by
the end of the year which is
really nuts
but thank you very much for your time
hopefully you've got something from this
one and until i talk to you on hopefully
tomorrow i guess it will be morning so
i'll have another video up on youtube
tomorrow night around 10 o'clock until i
talk to you then be safe